>> Josh Long: Okay,
this is a front end master's course.
So what does this have to
do with the front end?
Well, like I said,
this is all in the JVM right here, right?
My tool calling is another function,
another module, another object,
another thing in the same jvm.
But like I said earlier,
the front end today is AI models.
It's chat clients, right?
It's a chat assistance,
it's assistants in general.
And they can do increasingly
powerful things.
Back in November, Anthropic,
the makers of Claude Claude Desktop,
C L A U D E, they announced this new
thing called MCP model Context protocol.
And MCP is a protocol you can
use to give CLAUDE access to
your tools on your local machine.
It's a network protocol.
It's a protocol.
Rather the first version wasn't a network
protocol so much as it was a standard in,
standard out protocol protocol.
But the point is two separate processes
on the same host could now talk to each
other, right?
So you have Cloud desktop.
It's like ChatGPT except it's a.
And ChatGPT has a ChatGPT.app,
which is your Mac OS native binary that
wraps the the web view for ChatGPT.
There's also ChatGPT.exe.
Well, the same thing for Claude.
There's Claude.app and Claude.exe, right?
And they both, I imagine one assumes they
just wrap the webview and make it so
that you can install them in
your local operating systems.
But Claude Desktop ships with a new
feature where you can configure
a JSON config file and list enumerate
the paths of binaries that if
Claude Desktop wants to,
it can invoke to get some responses.
So what protocol do these binaries speak?
Like I said, they speak this MCP protocol.
Well, I mean, that's awesome, right?
There's a protocol you can
actually talk to things.
So people have done thousands.
There's thousands of
MCP services out there.
This thing is taken off like wildfire,
right?
There's actually directories you can go to
that just list really cool MCP services.
There's actually,
I saw this the other week,
a directory of directories of other MCP
services that you can download and use.
Every big vendor,
every cloud, hyperscaler, or
almost all of them at least
have MCP services now, right?
Zapier just announced
a cloud like a MCP service.
Everybody has an MCP service now and
eventually that host to host.
Sorry, in host intro host
process to process standard
IO Standard out based protocol
evolved to also support HTTP.
This is where it gets
really interesting for
us because it's a front-end master thing.
So now you can build a service speaking
MCP on top of just regular Spring
right on top of the web stack.
And you can do McP with
standard IO as well.
We on the Spring AI team
really love this protocol.
In the weeks that followed
the announcement of it,
we built a Java SDK
implementation of the protocol.
We did it so early that in fact Anthropic
reached out to us and that we donated.
We ended up donating the core
implementation from Spring AI support for
MCP to the Anthropic Model Context
Protocol IO foundation thing, right?
Their effort,
their open-source thing, right.
So the core Java SDK
is code that we wrote.
And so if you want to write
MCP services using the jvm.
And why wouldn't you?
Well, you're using our code anyway,
even if you're not using
Spring AI on top of it, right?
So that's what we're going to do.
We're going to turn this admittedly bit
of a trivial thing into an MCP service.
I've got the scheduler here.
I'm going to stand up a new MCP service.
We'll go over here, start Spring IO and
I'm going to call this Scheduler.
I'm going to say
MCP Server Web Enter UAO Server Scheduler
rather.
And I'm going to run this
in port 8081 because I need
a port 8081 and
I'll say Scheduler application.
I'm going to cut and paste this
proprietary patent pending business logic
for my adoption service over
here to my Scheduler thing.
And I need to tell the auto configuration
here in my MCP server to export that tool.
So I'll just do that
with this auto config.
I'll say tool objects and I'll inject
the old, dogged option scheduler, okay.
Okay, so let me start that up.
I don't know.
Yeah, that'll be fine.
So that'll start up on
tomcat on port 8081.
There it is right there, port 8081.
So now we go back over here and
now that I've left a little dog adoption
scheduler shape hole in my code.
I got to replace it and tell it to instead
get that functionality from the service
that we just stood up instead
of from the local Java object.
So I'll do that by
configuring an MCP client.
Okay, so Bean mcp sync client,
mcp sync client return mcp client.sync.
and then it's a.
This one changed recently, so
I have to like, remember, okay.
Yeah, localhost8081.build, .build.
Okay and actually technically
you're supposed to do this.
Okay, so restart and
I need to now tell Spring's chat
client to then talk to that thing.
So I'll inject that here.
McP sync client.
Put that here and
new sync that that Restart.
So I had to add this one object
that wrapped the thing I passed in.
I had to define this one bean,
kind of like a data source,
telling it to source the MCP
tools from that service.
And I could have more than one.
In this case,
I've just got the one scheduler.
But you could have thousands, right?
Okay, so whoops,
it's not going to know what to do.
Control C.
Do you have any direct dogs?
Okay, great.
We have Prancer.
Okay, when can I adopt Prancer
from the Minneapolis location?
April 26th.
So this is the adoption service.
Nothing on the console there.
Here's the scheduler service.
The model talked to the scheduler via mcp,
right.
And it got the response back and
it incorporated that response.
You could write these MCP services
in all sorts of other languages.
Just find me one that'll be as productive
and efficient and wide scoping and
fast and scalable as the one in Java.
It's amazing.
This is an amazing time.
Now, when I say that there
are thousands of MCP services,
I might be under exaggerating.
What's the opposite of exaggerating?
I might be underselling it.
There might be tens of
thousands at this point.
There are countless.
I mean, I saw one again, you have to
be careful because there's mcphtp,
MCP standard in, standard out.
There's an MCP service that does like,
it uses blender, the 3D tool.
So you go to Claude desktop, you point it
to one of these standard, standard in,
standard out, MCP services and
say render a scene of 1920s Parisian Cafe.
Parisian cafe.
And it'll just do it, right?
I mean people are.
It's like Star Trek computer,
make me a cup of coffee.
I mean, people are doing
amazing things with this now.
And the interface for
all this is just a chat.
A chat box, right?
So if you can build your.
If you can export your business logic,
your organization's functionality in terms
of these MCP services,
you can do all sorts of amazing things.
I showed you spring batch yesterday.
We built an MCP service that allows you
to ask questions about the state of your
spring batch jobs.
How many jobs are running,
what state are they in?
Right, just really amazing things.
Cloud hyperscalers are letting
you create and manipulate stuff.
GitHub, they released an MCP service
just recently, the MCP service.
I built a demo on my stream, my live
stream last week with Microsoft's vice
president of developer advocacy or
whatever, Patrick Shannazol.
In that we talked about how to use Spring
AI to talk to the MCP service to ask
questions and or
mutate state on my GitHub account.
Like I could commit stuff via text.
I could say, hey, add a file,
add a readme that analyzes the source code
of this Git repository and it would do it.
We live in an amazing time.
An amazing time.
And of course, this is all AI.
And guess what this is doing?
It's just doing network I O.
And guess what?
You don't want to do network
I O without virtual threads.